# MoGraph

The MoGraph module allows the creation of dynamic animations. It is based on cloners, effectors and fields. 

Classic API:
- **c4d.SoundEffectorData**: *Stores multiple sound probes that are used to sample a given sound file (defined by a soundtrack). The class also allows to sample the sound file using the defined probes.*
- **c4d.VoronoiFracture**: *Represents a Voronoi Fracture MoGraph generator. The class provides safe access to the point sources referenced, owned and used by the generator.*

- **c4d.modules.mograph.C4D_Falloff**: *Represents a falloff and allows to sample falloffs.* **DEPRECATED in R20 use Field**

- **c4d.modules.mograph.FieldObject**: *Represents a field in the Cinema 4D scene. Such a field can be sampled in 3D space to obtain values and colors. Field objects are typically used with MoGraph effectors.*
- **c4d.modules.mograph.FieldList**: *Represents a custom data type that stores FieldLayer.*
- **c4d.modules.mograph.FieldLayer**: *Represents a certain function or is referencing a FieldObject.*
- **c4d.modules.mograph.FieldInfo**: *Provides information on the context of the sampling operation.*
- **c4d.modules.mograph.FieldInput**: *Defines points in space that should be sampled. Optionally further data like directions or UV-coordinates can be added.*
- **c4d.modules.mograph.FieldOutput**: *Stores the data generated by the sampling process.*

## Examples

### fieldlist_add_mask
Version: R21 - Win/Mac

    Creates a FieldList with a formula layer, a mask and another formula layer used as a mask of the first formula layer.
    Assigns this FieldList to the active object that have a c4d.FIELDS parameter e.g. all MoGraph effectors.

### fieldlist_sampling
Version: R20, R21 - Win/Mac

    Samples arbitrary points from multiple fields with c4d.FieldList and stores the result into a vertex color tag.

### fieldobject_sampling
Version: R20, R21 - Win/Mac

    Samples arbitrary points within a random field.

### get_modata_selection
Version: R20, R21 - Win/Mac

    Retrieves all selected clones of the active Cloner object.

### get_modata_weights
Version: R20, R21 - Win/Mac

    Retrieves the weights from all clones of the active Cloner object.

### read_modata_color
Version: R16, R17, R18, R19, R20, R21 - Win/Mac

    Retrieves the color or each clone using two ways.
    First one by accessing directly the Mograph Data.
    Second one by accessing the polygon cache representation of the Mograph Cloner.

### set_modata_selection
Version: R20, R21 - Win/Mac

    Selects all clones of the active Cloner object.

### set_modata_weights
Version: R20, R21 - Win/Mac

    Sets a weight of 1.0 for all clones of the active Cloner object.

### voronoi_fracture
Version: R20, R21 - Win/Mac

    Creates and define a noise shader as an input of a Voronoi Fracture object.
