# Geometry
Provides examples for geometry types in the classic API.

All geometry in the Cinema 4D classic API is represented as `BaseObject` instances. `BaseObject` instances can also express non-geometry entities as light object or cameras, but they are being ignored in this context. There are two fundamental types of geometry representations in the classic API:

* Generator objects
* Non-generator objects

Realized are most forms of classic API geometry by the following type hierarchy (there are some outliers as for example VolumeObject which have their own type, but these are still all `BaseObject` instances):

    c4d.BaseObject
    +- c4d.PointObject
        +- c4d.LineObject
        +- c4d.PolygonObject
        +- c4d.SplineObject

Generator objects are objects which generate some form of geometry over their parameters exposed in the Attribute Manger of Cinema 4D. Generators objects can generate both polygon and curve geometry. An example would be the Cube generator object which has parameters for its size, segments and fillets. Changing the parameters of the Cube generator object will then regenerate its underlying cache which represents the generator in the viewport and renderings. Generator objects do not allow users to modify their underlying cache manually. This also applies to programmatic access. While it is technically possible to modify the underlying representations of generators from code, it is not recommended to do so.

Non-generator objects on the other hand do not have any parameters which are exposed in the Attribute Manger which would influence their geometry. The two types which follow this model are `LineObject` and `PolygonObject`, both derived form `PointObject` . `PolygonObject` represents raw polygonal data over vertices and polygons, and `LineObject` represents raw curve data over points.

The outlier from this model is the type `SplineObject` which is both a `PointObject` and a generator object and is representing splines. The Circle spline generator object is of type `BaseObject` and it will return a `LineObject` instance as its internal representation. But other than for the type `PolygonObject`, a `SplineObject` also has a cache, which is also a LineObject. So, `LineObject` caches are generated directly by plain `BaseObject` instances (when they represent a parametric spline generator object as for example the Circle object), and they are generated by `SplineObject` instances which represent splines with vertices editable by the user in the editor. When correctly implemented via `ObjectData.GetContour()`, `BaseObject` spline generators will always return directly a `LineObject` cache and not an intermediate form of a `SplineObject`.

There are two types of geometry caches in the classic API. Caches for internal representations of generator objects, they are plainly referred to as *caches*, and *deform caches*; which can only be found on non-generator objects.

The cache of a generator object represents the set of parameters the generator object had when the cache was built. In the case of simple generators as for example the Cube generator object, the cache is a `PolygonObject`, representing the polygons of that generator. But generator object caches can be much more complex, where the cache of the generator is a hierarchy of objects, including other generator objects with their own caches. The function PrintCacheTree() of this example is designed to provide a more clear understanding of such complex caches.

Deform caches can only be found on non-generator objects and they are generated when a deformer object, e.g., the Bend object, is applied to them. These caches then represent the deformed state of the `PolygonObject` or `LineObject` and realize the non-destructive nature of deformers in Cinema 4D. Since many objects in a scene can be generator objects, deform caches are often buried deep within the cache of a generator object. See also PrintCacheTree() for more clarity on this subject.

## Examples

| File | Description |
| :-   | :-          |
| geometry_caches_xxx.py | Explains the geometry model of the classic API in Cinema 4D. |
| geometry_polygonobject_xxx.py | Explains the user-editable polygon object model of the classic API. |
| geometry_splineobject_xxx.py | Explains the user-editable spline object model of the classic API. |
| operation_extrude_polygons_xxx.py | Demonstrates how to extend polygonal geometry at the example of extruding polygons. |
| operation_flatten_polygons_xxx.py | Demonstrates how to deform points of a point object at the example of 'flattening' the selected polygons in a polygon object. |
| operation_transfer_axis_xxx.py | Demonstrates how to 'transfer' the axis of a point object to another object while keeping its vertices in place. |